title: Sudbury Valley School 

http://www.sudval.com/01_abou_05.html

Structure:

1. general body meeting
2. judicial commitee -- students file complain, witnesses etc & decisions are made by students themselves

AIM: Self motivated learning -- children do watever they want to do & ultimately find smthing they can do as a 'carreer'





MISC:

LOGICAL REASONING HAS TO BECOME BLOOD OF THE SYSTEM .. IT SHOULD BE UBIQUITOUS IN THE SYSTEM!!

best model is:
    1. LOGICAL REASONING SHOULD PERVAID THE SYSTEM .. childrent will automaticlaly learn it
    2. children find watever they want to do in life -- exactly as in sudbury model
        - for childrent to be able to find wat they want, they should at least have one "world tour -- wat all world comprises"
        - dont know -- to understand world tour - they'll need to have some prerequisites - so might be a good thing to do it in 8th std or something like dat [ref1]. 

***THINK OF HOW YOU WOULD BRING UP YOUR OWN SON ****

STARTUP IDEAS:

CAREER COUNCILING: For 8th Std students
    - they'll have couple of yrs of preparation of watever they wanna become
    - brain is fairly developed to understand wat I wanna try out in life
    - **LOGICAL REASONING WILL BE USED THOROUGHOUT THE EXPLAINATIONS .. YOU CAN TELL THIS METHOD OF ASKING "WHY" CAN BE USED IN OTHER PARTS OF LIFE AS WELL. KEEP A FREE SESSION TO UNDERSTAND POPULARITY & UTILITY.. **
    - see [1] -- you might want to give children a world tour!
    
    
    
-- 60% india poor, education can bring fundamental impact no doubt. but question is whether to target middle-higher class or to target lower class. If we target middle-upper class now, some has to target lower class -- later. So now or later, some1 has to bring about upliftment of lower class through educatoin.


Now their basic needs are not met -- education comes after that. So you need to work in a village where der is another org working to uplift the village. You'll take responsiblity of the education affairs of that village. Student are educated usingn "best" methods of education is ur responsibility. Making sure that their saplings of education fructify to yield good responsible citizen who has taken part in nation's upliftment is your responsibilty. This you can bring about by working with their families.
-- end to end responsibility of education of students -- make sure after education, they take right decisions, interact consistently with their families .. families play main role in taking children's decisions


-- OUT COMES OF DISCUSSION WITH SAHIL --------

1. freedom must for every children. So best methodology will have 100% freedom on student's part - once de r capable of handling freedom
2. Logical component is a must --- they should develop the reasoning capability
3. Only difference would be how many steps a teacher takes when student takes 1 step - first step is expected to be taken by student
4. vishwa darshan is required initially -- so dat student can understand wat all things go on in the world
5. Parent education



---notes excerpts --
The Combine
(whoops, slipped again!) ensures a workforce that will not
rebel — the greatest fear at the turn of the 20th century
— that will be physically, intellectually, and emotionally
dependent upon corporate institutions for their incomes,
self-esteem, and stimulation, and that will learn to find
social meaning in their lives solely in the production and
consumption of material goods. We all grew up in these
institutions and we know they work. They haven’t
changed much since the 1890s because they don’t need
to – they perform precisely as they are intended.

---

• As society rapidly changes, individuals will have to
be able to function comfortably in a world that is
always in flux. Knowledge will continue to increase
at a dizzying rate. This means that a content-based
curriculum, with a set body of information to be
imparted to students, is entirely inappropriate as a
means of preparing children for their adult roles.

• People will be faced with greater individual respon-
sibility to direct their own lives. Children must grow
up in an environment that stresses self-motivation
and self -assessment. Schools that focus on external
motivating factors, such as rewards and punish-
ments for meeting goals set by others, are denying
children the tools they need most to survive.

• The ability to communicate with others, to share
experiences, to collaborate, and to exchange infor-
mation is critical. Conversation, the ultimate means
of communication, must be a central part of a
sound education.

• As the world moves toward universal recognition of
individual rights within a democratic society, peo-
ple must be empowered to participate as equal
partners in whatever enterprise they are engaged in.
Students (and teachers) require full participation in
running educational institutions, including the
right to radically change them when needed.

• Technology now makes it possible for individuals to
learn whatever they wish, whenever they wish, and in
the manner they wish. Students should be empow-
ered with both the technology and the responsibility
for their own learning and educational timetable.

• Children have an immense capacity for concentra-
tion and hard work when they are passionate about
what they are doing, and the skills they acquire in
any area of interest are readily transferable to other
fields. Schools must thus become far more tolerant
of individual variation and far more reliant on self-
initiated activities.


 But I also imagine that the capacity to form
one’s own convictions independent of what was being
taught in the classroom, the ability to think critically
based upon one’s own experience, would not rank high
on many lists. 

As parents, we all want what
is “best” for our children. Yet, by our own actions and
lifestyles, and through the demands that we place on our
educational institutions, it is clear that by “best” we all
too often mean “most.” This shift from the qualitative
to the quantitative, from thinking about what is best or
the holistic development of the individual human being

As parents, we all want what
is “best” for our children. Yet, by our own actions and
lifestyles, and through the demands that we place on our
educational institutions, it is clear that by “best” we all
too often mean “most.” This shift from the qualitative
to the quantitative, from thinking about what is best or
the holistic development of the individual human being

--
The first lesson I teach is confu-
sion. Everything I teach is out of context. I teach the
un-relating of everything. I teach disconnections. I teach
too much: the orbiting of planets, the law of large num-
bers, slavery, adjectives, architectural drawing, dance,
gymnasium, choral singing, assemblies, surprise guests,
fire drills, computer languages, parents’ nights, staff-
development days, pull-out programs, guidance with
strangers my students may never see again, standardized
tests, age-segregation unlike anything seen in the outside
world ... What do any of these things have to do with
each other?

Meaning, not disconnected facts, is what sane
human beings seek
Behind the patch-
work quilt of school sequences and the school obsession
with facts and theories, the age-old human search for
meaning lies well concealed. T

 If I do my job well, the kids can’t even
imagine themselves somewhere else because I’ve shown

them how to envy and fear the better classes and how to
have contempt for the dumb classes. Under this efficient
discipline the class mostly polices itself into good march-
ing order. 

3. INDIFFERENCE
The third lesson I teach is indifference. I teach children
not to care too much about anything, even though they
want to make it appear that they do. How I do this is
very subtle. I do it by demanding that they become
totally involved in my lessons, jumping up and down in
their seats with anticipation, competing vigorously with
each other for my favor. It’s heartwarming when they
do that; it impresses everyone, even me. When I’m at
my best I plan lessons very carefully in order to produce
Anna Kelly (order #3483)
 6
 DUMBING US D OWN : The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling
this show of enthusiasm. But when the bell rings I insist
they drop whatever it is we have been doing and pro-
ceed quickly to the next work station. They must turn
on and off like a light switch. Nothing important is ever
finished in my class nor in any class I know of. Students
never have a complete experience except on the install-
ment plan.

4. E MOTIONAL DEPENDENCY
The fourth lesson I teach is emotional dependency. By stars
and red checks, smiles and frowns, prizes, honors, and
disgraces, I teach kids to surrender their will to the pre-
destinated chain of command. Rights may be granted or
withheld by any authority without appeal, because rights
do not exist inside a school — not even the right of free
speech, as the Supreme Court has ruled — unless school
authorities say they do. As a schoolteacher, I intervene in
many personal decisions, issuing a pass for those I deem
legitimate and initiating a disciplinary confrontation for
behavior that threatens my control. Individuality is con-
stantly trying to assert itself among children and
teenagers, so my judgments come thick and fast.
Individuality is a contradiction of class theory, a curse to
all systems of classification.

5. INTELLECTUAL DEPENDENCY
The fifth lesson I teach is intellectual dependency. Good
students wait for a teacher to tell them what to do. This
is the most important lesson of them all: we must wait
for other people, better trained than ourselves, to make
the meanings of our lives. The expert makes all the
important choices; only I, the teacher, can determine
what my kids must study, or rather, only the people who
pay me can make those decisions, which I then enforce.
If I’m told that evolution is a fact instead of a theory, I
transmit that as ordered, punishing deviants who resist
what I have been told to tell them to think. This power
to control what children will think lets me separate suc-
cessful students from failures very easily.

Successful children do the thinking I assign them
with a minimum of resistance and a decent show of
Anna Kelly (order #3483)
 8
 DUMBING US D OWN : The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling
enthusiasm. Of the millions of things of value to study, I
decide what few we have time for. Actually, though, this
is decided by my faceless employers. The choices are
theirs — why should I argue? Curiosity has no important
place in my work, only conformity.

6. PROVISIONAL SELF-ESTEEM
The sixth lesson I teach is provisional self-esteem. If you’ve
ever tried to wrestle into line kids whose parents have
convinced them to believe they’ll be loved in spite of
anything, you know how impossible it is to make self-
confident spirits conform. Our world wouldn’t survive a
flood of confident people very long, so I teach that a
kid’s self-respect should depend on expert opinion. My
kids are constantly evaluated and judged.
(he kam amchan jampa na re baba attitude after 10th n seeing grades of 60%)

A monthly report, impressive in its provision, is sent
into a student’s home to elicit approval or mark exactly,
down to a single percentage point, how dissatisfied with
the child a parent should be. 

The lesson of report cards, grades, and tests is that
children should not trust themselves or their parents but
should instead rely on the evaluation of certified officials.
People need to be told what they are worth.

7. ONE CAN’T HIDE
The seventh lesson I teach is that one can’t hide. I teach stu-
dents that they are always watched, that each is under
constant surveillance by me and my colleagues. There
are no private spaces for children; there is no private
time. Class change lasts exactly three hundred seconds to
keep promiscuous fraternization at low levels. Students
are encouraged to tattle on each other or even to tattle
on their own parents. Of course, I encourage parents to
file reports about their own child’s waywardness too. A
family trained to snitch on itself isn’t likely to conceal
any dangerous secrets.

I assign a type of extended schooling called “home-
work,” so that the effect of surveillance, if not the
surveillance itself, travels into private households, where
students might otherwise use free time to learn some-
thing unauthorized from a father or mother, by
exploration or by apprenticing to some wise person in
the neighborhood. Disloyalty to the idea of schooling is
a devil always ready to find work for idle hands.

It is the great triumph of compulsory government
monopoly mass schooling that among even the best of
my fellow teachers, and among even the best of my stu-
dents’ parents, only a small number can imagine a
different way to do things. “The kids have to know how
to read and write, don’t they?” “They have to know how
to add and subtract, don’t they?” “They have to learn to
follow orders if they ever expect to keep a job.”
Only a few lifetimes ago things were very different
in the United States. Originality and variety were com-
mon currency; our freedom from regimentation made us
the miracle of the world; social-class boundaries were
relatively easy to cross; our citizenry was marvelously
confident, inventive, and able to do much for themselves
independently, and to think for themselves. 

But we’ve had a society essentially under central
control in the United States since just after the Civil War,
and such a society requires compulsory schooling —
government monopoly schooling — to maintain itself.
Before this development schooling wasn’t very impor-
tant anywhere. We had it, but not too much of it, and
only as much as an individual wanted. People learned to
read, write, and do arithmetic just fine anyway; there are
some studies that suggest literacy at the time of the
American Revolution, at least for non-slaves on the
Eastern seaboard, was close to total. Thomas Paine’s
Common Sense sold 600,000 copies to a population of
3,000,000, of whom twenty percent were slaves and fifty
percent indentured servants.

School, as it was built, is an essential support system
for a model of social engineering that condemns most
people to be subordinate stones in a pyramid that nar-
rows as it ascends to a terminal of control. School is an
artifice that makes such a pyramidical social order seem
inevitable, even though such a premise is a fundamental
betrayal of the American Revolution. From Colonial
days through the period of the Republic we had no
schools to speak of — read Benjamin Franklin’s
Autobiography for an example of a man who had no time
to waste in school — and yet the promise of democracy

was beginning to be realized. We turned our backs on
this promise by bringing to life the ancient pharaonic
dream of Egypt: compulsory subordination for all. That
was the secret Plato reluctantly transmitted in The
Republic when Glaucon and Adeimantus extort from
Socrates the plan for total state control of human life, a
plan necessary to maintain a society where some people
take more than their share. “I will show you,” says
Socrates, “how to bring about such a feverish city, but
you will not like what I am going to say.” And so the
blueprint of the seven-lesson school was first sketched.

QQQQ..

How did these awful places, these “schools,” come
about? Well, casual schooling has always been with us in
a variety of forms, a mildly useful adjunct to growing up.
But “modern schooling” as we now know it is a by-

product of the two “Red Scares” of 1848 and 1919,
when powerful interests feared a revolution among our
own industrial poor. Partly, too, total schooling came
about because old-line “American” families were
appalled by the native cultures of Celtic, Slavic, and
Latin immigrants of the 1840s and felt repugnance
toward the Catholic religion they brought with them.
Certainly a third contributing factor in creating a jail for
children called “school” must have been the consterna-
tion with which these same “Americans” regarded the
movement of African-Americans through the society in
the wake of the Civil War

confusion, class position, indifference, emotional and
intellectual dependency, conditional self-esteem, and
surveillance. All of these lessons are prime training for
permanent underclasses, people deprived forever of find-
ing the center of their own special genius. And over time
this training has shaken loose from its original purpose:
to regulate the poor. For since the 1920s the growth of
the school bureaucracy as well as the less visible growth
of a horde of industries that profit from schooling exact-
ly as it is, has enlarged this institution’s original grasp to
the point that it now seizes the sons and daughters of the
middle classes as well.

we have a real national crisis, the
nature of which is very different from that proclaimed by
the national media. Young people are indifferent to the
adult world and to the future, indifferent to almost
everything
Rich or poor, school children who face the twenty-first
century cannot concentrate on anything for very long;
they have a poor sense of time past and time to come.

All the peripheral tendencies of childhood are
nourished and magnified to a grotesque extent by
schooling, which, through its hidden curriculum, pre-
vents effective personality development. Indeed, without
exploiting the fearfulness, selfishness, and inexperience
of children, our schools could not survive at all, nor
could I as a certified schoolteacher.

The method is deeply and profoundly anti-educational. No tinkering will fix it.

I’m trying to describe a free market in schooling
exactly like the one the country had until the Civil War,
one in which students volunteer for the kind of education
that suits them even if that means self-education. It didn’t
hurt Benjamin Franklin that I can see.

The world’s narcotic economy
is based upon our consumption of this commodity.

In Manhattan, seventy percent of all new
marriages last less than five years. So something is wrong
for sure.

Children and old peo-
ple are penned up and locked away from the business of
the world to a degree without precedent: nobody talks to
them anymore, and without children and old people mix-
ing in daily life, a community has no future and no past,
only a continuous present.

Our form of compulsory schooling is an invention of the
State of Massachusetts around 1850. It was resisted —
sometimes with guns — by an estimated eighty percent
of the Massachusetts population, the last outpost in
Barnstable on Cape Cod not surrendering its children
until the 1880s, when the area was seized by militia and


Now here is a curious idea to ponder: Senator Ted
Kennedy’s office released a paper not too long ago
claiming that prior to compulsory education the state
literacy rate was ninety-eight percent and that after it the
figure never exceeded ninety-one percent, where it
stands in 1990.


Here is another curiosity to think about: The home-
schooling movement has quietly grown to a size where
one and half million young people are being educated
entirely by their own parents; last month the education
press reported the amazing news that, in their ability to
think, children schooled at home seem to be five or even
ten years ahead of their formally trained peers.

People who admire our school institution usually
admire networking in general and have an easy time see-
ing its positive side, but they overlook its negative aspect:
networks, even good ones, drain the vitality from com-
munities and families. They provide mechanical
(“by-the-numbers”) solutions to human problems, when
a slow, organic process of self-awareness, self-discovery,
and cooperation is what is required if any solution is to
stick.
Think of the challenge of losing weight. It’s possi-
ble to employ mechanical tricks to do this quickly, but
I’m told that ninety-five percent of the poor souls who
do are only fooling themselves. The weight lost this way
doesn’t stay off; it comes back in a short time. Other
network solutions are just as temporary: a group of law
students may network to pass their college exams, but
preparing a brief in private practice is often a solitary,
lonely experience.

What is gained from consulting a specialist and surren-
dering all judgment is often more than outweighed by a
permanent loss of one’s own volition.

This discovery
accounts for the curious texture of real communication,
where people argue with their doctors, lawyers, and min-
isters, tell craftsmen what they want instead of accepting
what they get, frequently make their own food from
scratch instead of buying it in a restaurant or defrosting it,
and perform many similar acts of participation. A real
community is, of course, a collection of real families who
themselves function in this participatory way.
Networks, however, don’t require the whole person,
but only a narrow piece. If, on the other hand, you func-
tion in a network, it asks you to suppress all the parts of
yourself except the network-interest part — a highly
unnatural act although one you can get used to. In
exchange, the network will deliver efficiency in the pur-
suit of some limited aim. This is, in fact, a devil’s bargain,
since on the promise of some future gain one must sur-
render the wholeness of one’s present humanity. If you
enter into too many of these bargains, you will split your-
self into many specialized pieces, none of them
completely human.

And no time is available to reintegrate
them. This, ironically, is the destiny of many successful
networkers and doubtless generates much business for
divorce courts and therapists of a variety of persuasions.
The fragmentation caused by excessive networking
creates diminished humanity, a sense that our lives are
out of control — because they are (think of 11th standard confused student). If we face the present
school and community crisis squarely, with hopes of
finding a better way, we need to accept that schools, as
networks, create a large part of the agony of modem life.
We don’t need more schooling — we need less. 

Networks like schools are not communities, just as
school training is not education.


By preempting fifty per-
cent of the total time of the young, by locking young
people up with other young people exactly their own
age, by ringing bells to start and stop work, by asking
people to think about the same thing at the same time in
the same way, by grading people the way we grade veg-
etables — and in a dozen other vile and stupid ways —
network schools steal the vitality of communities and
replace it with an ugly mechanism. No one survives these
places with their humanity intact, not kids, not teachers,
not administrators, and not parents

The feeding frenzy of formal
schooling has already wounded us seriously in our ability
to form families and communities, by bleeding away time
we need with our children and our children need with us.

If performance within these narrow confines is con-
ceived to be the supreme measure of success, if, for
instance, an A average is considered the central purpose
of adolescent life — the requirements for which take
most of the time and attention of the aspirant — and if
the worth of the individual is reckoned by victory or
defeat in this abstract pursuit, then a social machine has
been constructed which, by attaching purpose and
meaning to essentially meaningless and fantastic behav-
ior, will certainly dehumanize students, alienate them
from their own human nature, and break the natural
connection between them and their parents, to whom
they would otherwise look for significant affirmations.

Large cities have great difficulty supporting healthy
community life, partly because of the coming and going
of strangers, partly because of space constrictions, partly
because of poisoned environments, but mostly because
of the constant competition of institutions and networks

for the custody of children and old people, for monopo-
lizing the time of everyone else in between. By isolating
young and old from the working life of places and by iso-
lating the working population from the lives of young
and old, institutions and networks have brought about a
fundamental disconnection of the generations. The
griefs that arise from this have no synthetic remedy; no
vibrant, satisfying communities can come into being
where young and old are locked away.

Institutions are not the sum total of
their personnel, or even of their leadership, but are inde-
pendent of both and will exist after management has been
completely replaced. They are ideas come to life, ideas in
whose service all employees are but servomechanisms. The
deepest purposes of these gigantic networks are to regulate
and to make uniform. Since the logic of family and com-
munity is to give scope to variety around a central theme,
whenever institutions intervene significantly in personal
affairs they cause much damage. By redirecting the focus
of our lives from families and communities to institutions
and networks, we, in effect, anoint a machine our king.

Nearly a century ago a French sociologist wrote that
every institution’s unstated first goal is to survive and
grow, not to undertake the mission it has nominally
staked out for itself. Thus the first goal of a government
postal service is not to deliver the mail; it is to provide
protection for its employees and perhaps a modest status
ladder for the more ambitious ones. The first goal of a
permanent military organization is not to defend nation-
al security but to secure, in perpetuity, a fraction of the
national wealth to distribute to its personnel.
It was this philistine potential — that teaching the
young for pay would inevitably expand into an institu-
tion for the protection of teachers, not students — that
made Socrates condemn the Sophists so strongly long
ago in ancient Greece.

This business we call “education” — when we
mean “schooling” — makes an interesting example of
network values in conflict with traditional community
values. For one hundred and fifty years institutional edu-
cation has seen fit to offer as its main purpose the
preparation for economic success. Good education =
good job, good money, good things. This has become
the universal national banner, hoisted by Harvards as
well as high schools. This prescription makes both par-
ent and student easier to regulate and intimidate as long
as the connection goes unchallenged either for its verac-
ity or in its philosophical truth. Interestingly enough,
the American Federation of Teachers identifies one of its
missions as persuading the business community to hire
and promote on the basis of school grades so that the
grades = money formula will obtain, just as it was made
to obtain for medicine and law after years of political
lobbying. So far, the common sense of businesspeople
has kept them hiring and promoting the old-fashioned
way, using performance and private judgment as the pre-
ferred measures, but they may not resist much longer. (TODAYS EDU SYSTEM IS FOR GETTING JOBS ..DATS IT ..NOTHING MORE .. AND IT IS DOING THIS PART WELL)

The absurdity of defining education as an econom-
ic good becomes clear if we ask ourselves what is gained
by perceiving education as a way to enhance even further
the runaway consumption that threatens the earth, the
air, and the water of our planet? Should we continue to
teach people that they can buy happiness in the face of a
tidal wave of evidence that they cannot? Shall we ignore
the evidence that drug addiction, alcoholism, teenage
suicide, divorce, and other despairs are pathologies of
the prosperous much more than they are of the poor?

On this question of meanings we’ve hidden from
ourselves for so long hangs both an understanding of the
illness that is killing us and the cure we are searching for.
What, after all this time, is the purpose of mass school-
ing supposed to be? Reading, writing, and arithmetic
can’t be the answer, because properly approached those
things take less than a hundred hours to transmit — and
we have abundant evidence that each is readily self-
taught in the right setting and time. -- ***actual education should teach smthing which cannot be taught at home -- which includes not reading/writing but current affairs, spiritual education, different world views etc ***  

Discovering meaning for yourself as well as discovering
satisfying purpose for yourself, is a big part of what edu-
cation is. How this can be done by locking children away
from the world is beyond me.

An important difference between communities and insti-
tutions is that communities have natural limits; they stop
growing or they die. There’s a good reason for this: in the
best communities everyone is a special person who soon-
er or later impinges on everyone else’s consciousness. The
effects of this constant attention make all, rich or poor,
feel important, because the only way importance is per-
ceived is by having other folks pay attention to you.

Unlike true communities, pseudo communities and
other comprehensive networks like schools expand
indefinitely, just as long as they can get away with it.
“More” may not be “better,” but “more” is always more
profitable for the people who make a living out of net-
working. That is what is happening today behind the cry
to expand schooling even further: a great many people
are going to make a great deal of money if growth can
be continued.

The quality-competition of businesses (when it
actually happens) is generally a good thing for customers;
it keeps businesses on their toes, doing their best. The
competition inside an institution like a school isn’t the
same thing at all. What is competed for in a school is the
favor of a teacher, and that can be won or lost by too
many subjective parameters to count; it is always a little
arbitrary and sometimes a lot more pernicious than that.
It gives rise to envy, dissatisfaction, and a belief in magic.
Teachers, too, must compete for the arbitrarily dispensed
favor of administrators, which carries the promise of
good or bad classes, good or bad rooms, access to or
denial of tools, and other hostages to obedience, defer-ence, and subordination. The culture of schools only
coheres in response to a web of material rewards and
punishments: A’s, F’s, bathroom passes, gold stars,
“good” classes, access to a photocopy machine.
Everything we know about why people drive themselves
to know things and do their best is contradicted inside
these places.

Whatever an education is, it should make you a unique
individual, not a conformist; it should furnish you with
an original spirit with which to tackle the big challenges;
it should allow you to find values which will be your road
map through life; it should make you spiritually rich, a
person who loves whatever you are doing, wherever you
are, whomever you are with; it should teach you what is
important: how to live and how to die.

The heart of a defense for the cherished American
ideals of privacy, variety, and individuality lies in the way
we bring up our young.

Private time is absolutely essential if a private iden-
tity is going to develop, and private time is equally
essential to the development of a code of private values,
without which we aren’t really individuals at all.
Children and families need some relief from government
surveillance and intimidation if original expressions
belonging to them are to develop. Without these free-
dom has no meaning.

American national unity has always been the central
problem of American life. It was inherent in our synthetic
beginnings and in the conquest of a continental land-
mass. It was true in 1790 and it is just as true, perhaps
even truer, two hundred years later. Somewhere around

the time of the Civil War we began to try shortcuts to
get the unity we wanted faster, by artificial means.
Compulsory schooling was one of those shortcuts, per-
haps the most important one. “Take hold the children!”
said John Cotton back in colonial Boston, and that
seemed such a good idea that eventually the people who
looked at “unity” almost as if it were a religious idea did
just that. It took thirty years to beat down a fierce oppo-
sition, but by the 1880s it had come to pass — “they”
had the children. For the last one hundred and ten years,
the “one-right-way” crowd has been trying to figure out
what to do with the children, and they still don’t know.


